README.md, before:

# communityDB

Human curated community data for [fedidb.org](https://fedidb.org)

## Contributing to communityDB: Adding or Updating Software

Thank you for contributing to communityDB on FediDB! This document will guide you through the process of adding a new software entry or updating an existing one by submitting a Pull Request (PR). Follow the instructions below to ensure your PR can be reviewed and merged smoothly.

## JSON Format for Software Entries
To add or update software in the communityDB repository, you will need to provide the details in the following JSON format:

```json
{
    "name": "Pixelfed",
    "slug": "pixelfed",
    "description": "Photo Sharing. For Everyone.",
    "license": "AGPL",
    "source_code": "https://github.com/pixelfed/pixelfed",
    "website": "https://pixelfed.org",
    "apps_url": "https://pixelfed.org/mobile-apps",
    "join_url": "https://pixelfed.org/servers",
    "api_docs_url": "https://beta-preview.pixelfed.io",
    "support_url": "https://github.com/pixelfed/support",
    "forum_url": "https://github.com/pixelfed/pixelfed/discussions",
    "donate_url": "https://pixelfed.org/support-our-project",
    "matrix_url": "https://matrix.to/#/#pixeldev:matrix.org",
    "logo_source_url": "https://fedidb.org/storage/software-logos/pixelfed.png",
    "logo_source_version": 2
}
```

## Steps to Add or Update Your Software Entry

### 1. Fork the Repository
Start by forking the communityDB repository to your own GitHub account. This will allow you to make changes without affecting the main repository directly.

### 2. Clone Your Fork
Clone your fork of the repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/communityDB.git
```

### 3. Create a New Branch
Create a new branch for your changes:
```bash
git checkout -b add-software-entry
```

### 4. Edit the `software.json` File
Locate the `software.json` file in the repository. Add your new software entry or update an existing one using the JSON format provided above.

#### **Field Descriptions**
- **name**: The name of the software (e.g., "Pixelfed").
- **slug**: A lowercase, URL-friendly identifier for the software (e.g., "pixelfed"). This should never change.
- **description**: A short description of the software.
- **license**: The license of the software (e.g., "AGPL").
- **source_code**: URL to the source code repository.
- **website**: Official website URL for the software.
- **apps_url**: URL for mobile or desktop apps related to the software (optional).
- **join_url**: URL where users can join or register (optional).
- **api_docs_url**: URL for the software's API documentation (optional).
- **support_url**: URL for support resources (optional).
- **forum_url**: URL to any community discussion forums (optional).
- **donate_url**: URL for donations to support the software (optional).
- **matrix_url**: URL to a Matrix room for discussion (optional).
- **logo_source_url**: URL to the logo image of the software.
- **logo_source_version**: Version number of the logo source (used to update cached logos).

### 5. Validate Your JSON
Ensure your JSON is correctly formatted. You can use an online JSON validator such as [jsonlint.com](https://jsonlint.com/) to check for syntax errors.

### 6. Commit Your Changes
Once you have made your changes and validated the JSON, commit them:
```bash
git add software.json
git commit -m "Add Pixelfed to software list"
```

### 7. Push Your Changes
Push your changes to your fork:
```bash
git push origin add-software-entry
```

### 8. Open a Pull Request
Go to the original communityDB repository on GitHub and click the **"Compare & pull request"** button. Provide a brief description of the changes you made.

### 9. Respond to Review Feedback
The communityDB maintainers may request changes to your PR. Make any necessary updates and push them to your branch to update the PR.

## Example PR Description
When opening your Pull Request, include the following details:

- **Summary**: "Add [Software Name] to the communityDB software list"
- **Changes**: Add or update the JSON entry for the software.
- **Notes**: Provide any additional notes, such as why this software is relevant or any unique features.

## Questions?
If you have any questions or need help, feel free to open an issue or reach out to the maintainers. We appreciate your contributions!

---

Thank you for helping improve FediDB's communityDB! Your efforts help make the fediverse ecosystem even better.

Commit message:

Add note to slug description to make them unique and align with fediverse.observer

README.md, after:

# communityDB

Human curated community data for [fedidb.org](https://fedidb.org)

## Contributing to communityDB: Adding or Updating Software

Thank you for contributing to communityDB on FediDB! This document will guide you through the process of adding a new software entry or updating an existing one by submitting a Pull Request (PR). Follow the instructions below to ensure your PR can be reviewed and merged smoothly.

## JSON Format for Software Entries
To add or update software in the communityDB repository, you will need to provide the details in the following JSON format:

```json
{
    "name": "Pixelfed",
    "slug": "pixelfed",
    "description": "Photo Sharing. For Everyone.",
    "license": "AGPL",
    "source_code": "https://github.com/pixelfed/pixelfed",
    "website": "https://pixelfed.org",
    "apps_url": "https://pixelfed.org/mobile-apps",
    "join_url": "https://pixelfed.org/servers",
    "api_docs_url": "https://beta-preview.pixelfed.io",
    "support_url": "https://github.com/pixelfed/support",
    "forum_url": "https://github.com/pixelfed/pixelfed/discussions",
    "donate_url": "https://pixelfed.org/support-our-project",
    "matrix_url": "https://matrix.to/#/#pixeldev:matrix.org",
    "logo_source_url": "https://fedidb.org/storage/software-logos/pixelfed.png",
    "logo_source_version": 2
}
```

## Steps to Add or Update Your Software Entry

### 1. Fork the Repository
Start by forking the communityDB repository to your own GitHub account. This will allow you to make changes without affecting the main repository directly.

### 2. Clone Your Fork
Clone your fork of the repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/communityDB.git
```

### 3. Create a New Branch
Create a new branch for your changes:
```bash
git checkout -b add-software-entry
```

### 4. Edit the `software.json` File
Locate the `software.json` file in the repository. Add your new software entry or update an existing one using the JSON format provided above.

#### **Field Descriptions**
- **name**: The name of the software (e.g., "Pixelfed").
- **slug**: A lowercase, URL-friendly identifier for the software (e.g., "pixelfed"). This should never change. Ensure that this is unique across the file. You might also want to align with the slugs used in [fediverse.observer](https://fediverse.observer/).
- **description**: A short description of the software.
- **license**: The license of the software (e.g., "AGPL").
- **source_code**: URL to the source code repository.
- **website**: Official website URL for the software.
- **apps_url**: URL for mobile or desktop apps related to the software (optional).
- **join_url**: URL where users can join or register (optional).
- **api_docs_url**: URL for the software's API documentation (optional).
- **support_url**: URL for support resources (optional).
- **forum_url**: URL to any community discussion forums (optional).
- **donate_url**: URL for donations to support the software (optional).
- **matrix_url**: URL to a Matrix room for discussion (optional).
- **logo_source_url**: URL to the logo image of the software.
- **logo_source_version**: Version number of the logo source (used to update cached logos).

### 5. Validate Your JSON
Ensure your JSON is correctly formatted. You can use an online JSON validator such as [jsonlint.com](https://jsonlint.com/) to check for syntax errors.

### 6. Commit Your Changes
Once you have made your changes and validated the JSON, commit them:
```bash
git add software.json
git commit -m "Add Pixelfed to software list"
```

### 7. Push Your Changes
Push your changes to your fork:
```bash
git push origin add-software-entry
```

### 8. Open a Pull Request
Go to the original communityDB repository on GitHub and click the **"Compare & pull request"** button. Provide a brief description of the changes you made.

### 9. Respond to Review Feedback
The communityDB maintainers may request changes to your PR. Make any necessary updates and push them to your branch to update the PR.

## Example PR Description
When opening your Pull Request, include the following details:

- **Summary**: "Add [Software Name] to the communityDB software list"
- **Changes**: Add or update the JSON entry for the software.
- **Notes**: Provide any additional notes, such as why this software is relevant or any unique features.

## Questions?
If you have any questions or need help, feel free to open an issue or reach out to the maintainers. We appreciate your contributions!

---

Thank you for helping improve FediDB's communityDB! Your efforts help make the fediverse ecosystem even better.
